Linux Distributions
-------------------

A Linux distribution, often shortened to Linux distro, is an operating system 
compiled from components developed by various open source projects and 
programmers. Each distribution includes the Linux kernel (the foundation of 
the operating system), the GNU shell utilities (the terminal interface and 
commands), the X server (for a graphical desktop), the desktop environment, a 
package management system, an installer and other services. Many components 
are developed independently from each other and are distributed in source 
code form. Distros also include an Internet browser, management tools and 
other software such as the KVM hypervisor. A single Linux distribution may 
contain thousands of software packages, utilities and applications.

Linux distributions compile code from open source projects and combine it 
into a single operating system that can be installed and booted up. Linux 
distributions are available for desktop computers, for servers without a 
graphical interface, for super computers, for mobile devices, and for special 
uses, such as home theater PCs and embedded systems. Because it is open 
source software, anyone can make their own Linux distribution by assembling 
it from the source code themselves, or by modifying an existing distribution. 
Currently, more than 300 Linux distributions are actively maintained.

There are commercially backed distributions, such as Fedora (Red Hat), 
openSUSE (SUSE) and Ubuntu (Canonical Ltd.), and entirely community-driven 
distributions, such as Debian, Slackware, Gentoo and Arch Linux. Most 
distributions come ready to use and pre-compiled for a specific instruction 
set, while some distributions are distributed mostly in source code form and 
compiled locally during installation. Some commercial distributions charge 
users a fee for support and customer development services. Open source 
licensing prohibits charging for open source software.

The following is the list of some popular Linux distros:


1 Ubuntu
2 Debian
3 CentOS
4 Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)
5 Gentoo
6 Fedora
7 OpenSUSE
8 Scientific Linux
9 Cloud Linux
10 Elementary OS
11 Linux Mint
12 Arch Linux
13 Manjaro
14 Oracle Linux
15 Slackware
16 Mageia
17 Clear Linux
18 Rocky Linux
19 AlmaLinux
20 Puppy Linux

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
An important practice:

In CS260a, very often we are modifying our sensitive system files. Before any
modification, you need to make a copy of the original file(s). For example
cp .bashrc  .bashrc.orig
cp .bash_profile  .bash_profile.orig
cp .profile  .profile.orig

Whenever you need to delete the contents of any system file, please do the following:

cp  /dev/null your_system_filename


