In this lesson, we would like to talk about "SELinux".

Security Enhanced Linux or SELinux is an advanced access control mechanism built 
into most modern Linux distributions. It was initially developed by the US 
National Security Agency to protect computer systems from malicious intrusion 
and tampering. Over time, SELinux was released in the public domain and various 
distributions have since incorporated it in their code.


SELinux is the security implementation which enhances system security and in 
the event of security breach, it stops that from spreading in entire system. 

It implements MAC (Mandatory Access control) over already present DAC 
(Discretionary Access Control ) i.e. read, write , execute permissions.

Suppose we are running a web server which hosts several websites. To allow 
access on websites we have to open several ports in firewall. Hackers may use 
these ports to crack the system through the security exploits. And if that 
happens, hackers will gain the access permission of web server process. To 
serve web pages, usually a web server process has read permission on document 
root and write permission on the /tmp and /var/tmp directory. With this 
permission, hackers can write malicious scripts in /tmp directory which can be 
used to hack other services available on server. This way one infected process 
can cause a huge security rick to all services running on server.

If SELinux is enabled, hackers will not be able to access the other services 
available on sever as well as they will not be able to write anything in /tmp 
or /var/tmp directory.

SELinux Modes
-------------
SELinux works in three modes; Disable, Permissive and Enforcing. In disable 
mode SELinux remains completely disable. If SELinux is enabled, it will be in 
either Permissive mode or in Enforcing mode. In permissive mode SELinux will 
only monitor the interaction. In enforcing mode SELinux will also filter the 
interaction with monitoring.

Default configuration file to change these modes is /etc/selinux/config,
The /etc/selinux/config configuration file controls whether SELinux is enabled 
or disabled, and if enabled, whether SELinux operates in permissive mode or 
enforcing mode. The SELINUX variable may be set to any one of disabled, 
permissive, or enforcing to select one of these options. The disabled option 
completely disables the SELinux kernel and application code, leaving the system 
running without any SELinux protection. The permissive option enables the 
SELinux code, but causes it to operate in a mode where accesses that would be 
denied by policy are permitted but audited. The enforcing option enables the 
SELinux code and causes it to enforce access denials as well as auditing them. 
Permissive mode may yield a different set of denials than enforcing mode, both 
because enforcing mode will prevent an operation from proceeding past the first 
denial and because some application code will fall back to a less privileged 
mode of operation if denied access.

The /etc/selinux/config configuration file also controls what policy is active 
on the system. SELinux allows for multiple policies to be installed on the 
system, but only one policy may be active at any given time. At present, two 
kinds of SELinux policy exist: targeted and strict. The targeted policy is 
designed as a policy where most processes operate without restrictions, and 
only specific services are placed into distinct security domains that are 
confined by the policy. For example, the user would run in a completely 
unconfined domain while the named daemon or apache daemon would run in a 
specific domain tailored to its operation. The strict policy is designed as a 
policy where all processes are partitioned into fine-grained security domains 
and confined by policy. It is anticipated in the future that other policies 
will be created (Multi-Level Security for example). You can define which policy 
you will run by setting the SELINUXTYPE environment variable within 
/etc/selinux/config. The corresponding policy configuration for each such 
policy must be installed in the /etc/selinux/SELINUXTYPE/ directories.

A given SELinux policy can be customized further based on a set of compile-time 
tunable options and a set of runtime policy booleans. system-config-selinux 
allows customization of these booleans and tunables.

Many domains that are protected by SELinux also include selinux man pages 
explaining how to customize their policy.

Lets take an example. Suppose an ftp user want to access his home directory. 
So he accesses the shell prompt and executes the following command

$ftp LinxuServer.com

At LinuxServer system following will happen: -

A SysCall (System Call) will be generated for FTP server.
If SELinux is disabled, SysCall will be processed normally.
If SELinux is enabled, all Syscall will be processed through it.
SELinux will log the Syscall in /var/log/audit/audit.log file.
If SELinux enable mode is set to Permissive, Syscall will be processed normally.
If SELinux enable mode is set to Enforcing, Syscall will be checked against the 
security policies and will be processed only if it has the required permission.

SELinux Commands
----------------
sestatus
setenforce
getenforce
semanage

To learn how to use the commands in SELinux, please visit the following sites:

https://searchdatacenter.techtarget.com/tip/SELinux-tutorial-Commands-and-management
https://linuxhint.com/basic-selinux-commands/
https://phoenixnap.com/kb/enable-selinux-centos

