You as a sys-admin need to be familiar with several handy commands. Some of these
commands are:
find, grep (egrep, fgrep), sed, awk, cut, sort, and so forth.
I assume you are familiar with these commands.

We are using Linux in CS260A. For your information, hills is loaded with RedHat.
The silver and copper servers are also running RedHat. If on copper, you type "os",
it will display all information that you need about your operating system.

There are many different methods that you can convert your own PC or laptop to a
Linux box. In the following, I will share some of them with you:

1) Deleting your entire hard drive, and install a Linux operating system.
2) Converting your computer to "dual boot" computer. 
3) Installing "cygwin".
4) Installing virtual memory.
5) Installing Windows Subsystem for Linux (wsl).

Now lets talk about each one of these methods.

1) You can download your favorite Linux operating system to your hard disk, and run
   it. It will ask you to delete the entire hard disk and install your Linux.
   Using this approach will delete everything from your hard disk, and installs
   a fresh version of Linux.

2) In this approach, you need to create another partition (using fdisk or any other
   tool), and then install your Linux on this newly created partition. From now on,
   every time you boot your computer, you will be asked to boot to Windows or Linux.

3) Using cygwin, allows you to run Linux-like commands on your Windows. This is one
   of my favorite approach.

4) One of the most modern approach is installing the virtual machine software.
   There are several software available, but I highly recommend "virtualBox" by
   Oracle. In our textbook, one complete chapter is designated for this subject
   (chapter 3). I highly recommend virtual memory on your computer.

5) On Windows10, you can install Linux. In fact, you are embedding Linux to your
   Windows10. 

The following sites would help you learn and understand these different approaches:

https://itectec.com/ubuntu/ubuntu-how-to-wipe-up-all-partitions-on-disk-and-do-a-clean-install-of-ubuntu-duplicate/

https://itsfoss.com/guide-install-linux-mint-16-dual-boot-windows/

https://cygwin.com/install.html

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mns5yqMfZk&ab_channel=ProgrammingKnowledge2w

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10

About using the silver and copper servers
-----------------------------------------

As I explained previously, the silver and copper servers are designated to our course.I am
the sys-admin of these machines. I have already created accounts for all of you on these
servers. Please login to silver and copper and change your password ASAP.

The IP address for copper is:  147.144.23.63
The IP address for silver is:  147.144.23.63

copper: 147.144.23.63
silver: 147.144.23.64


As you see, these 2 servers are under the "subnet" 23. 
Subnet 23 is part of our LAN, and servers in this subnet are accessible only from
hills. Therefore the only way that we can access silver and copper is login to hills,
and then from hills we use "ssh" to login silver and copper.

On silver and copper, your user-id is the same as your user-id on hills, and your
initial password is set to "changeme". Please use the "passwd" command to change your
initial password on silver and copper.

I have already made .bash_profile, and .bashrc files for you. 
Your terminal prompt shows where you currently are. If you switch to another directory,
you prompt will all be updated.
There are several colors available. You might type the name of the color in upper case,
and see your text in that color. For example, if you type "GREEN", the your text will
be in the green color. 
There are several useful aliases and functions available. for example:

lll  is displaying the last 10 newly created or newly modified files.
os   will show you your operating system.
sd   will show you your directories.
sc   will show the Linux commands. It accepts regular expressions. For example:
     sc  "^..$"
     will show all of the commands that are consist of 2 letters. Or 
     sc "m*"  
     will show you all commands begin with the letter "m".

     I hardly recommend you to take a look at the .bash_profile on silver and copper, 
     and see all of these aliases and functions.
     You might port some of these or all of these to your hills account. But please
     make sure you have the backup of your current .bash_profile on hills.

     Typing the "alias" command, will display all of the aliases on your system.
     Typing the "declare -F" command, will display the names of all of the functions,
     and typing "declare -f" will display the implementations of all of these 
     commands.
